Implement compute-follows-data programming model [kernel API] (#598)
IntelPython/numba-dppy: docs/user_guides/kernel_programming_guide/selecting_device.rst

> How to select device to offload kernels

Reviewer: Instead rewording to : "Defining the execution queue for a kernel function."

=======================================

> Numba-dppy supports passing two types of arrays alongside scalars to a @numba_dppy.kernel decorated function. Depending on the array argument users will need to use different method to select the device for computation.

Reviewer: Suggested alternative:

"There are two ways to specify the queue where a kernel is executed. The first way follows the notion of "compute follows data" (CFD). The second way is for a programmer to specify the execution queue using a `dpctl.device_context` context manager.

In the CFD style of programming kernels, the execution queue is determined based on the input arguments passed to a kernel function. Currently, numba-dppy's kernel API only supports array arguments that provide the `__sycl_usm_array_interface` (SUAI) attribute for CFD style programming. The SUAI attribute encodes the queue where the array was defined.

We also allow passing arrays and data types that do not provide SUAI. For such cases, programmers need to specify the queue using the `dpctl.device_context` context manager. Do note that the use of `dpctl.device_context` is **deprecated** and slotted for removal in some future release."

> The two types are:

Reviewer: remove

> 1. numpy.ndarray.

Reviewer: remove

> 2. Any array with __sycl_usm_array_interface__ (SUAI) attribute.

Reviewer: remove

The following are how users can specify in which device they want to offload their computation.

- :code:`numpy.ndarray`
    Using context manager, :code:`with numba_dppy.offload_to_sycl_device(SYCL_device)`. Please look at method :code:`select_device_ndarray()` in the example below.

- Array with __sycl_usm_array_interface__ attribute
     Numba-dppy supports the Compute Follows Data semantics in this case. Compute Follows Data stipulates that computation must be off-loaded to device where data is resident.

     Expected behavior in different cases:
            - Users are allowed to mix arrays created using equivalent SYCL queues. Where equivalent queues are defined as:

                Two SYCL queues are equivalent if they have the same:
                    1. SYCL context
                    2. SYCL device
                    3. Same queue properties

            - All usm-types are accessible from device. Users can mix arrays with different usm-type as long as they were allocated using the equvalent SYCL queue.

> 

Reviewer: What is expected behavior if the context manager is specified when calling kernel with SUAI args?

Defining the execution queue for a kernel function
==================================================
There are two ways to specify the queue where a kernel is executed. The first way follows the notion of "compute follows data" (CFD). The second way is for a programmer to specify the execution queue using a dpctl.device_context context manager.

In the CFD style of programming kernels, the execution queue is determined based on the input arguments passed to a kernel function. Currently, numba-dppy's kernel API only supports array arguments that provide the :code:`__sycl_usm_array_interface__` (SUAI) attribute for CFD style programming. The SUAI attribute encodes the queue where the array was defined.

> We also allow passing arrays and data types that do not provide SUAI. For such cases, programmers need to specify the queue using the :code:`dpctl.device_context` context manager. Do note that the use of :code:`dpctl.device_context` is deprecated and slotted for removal in some future release.

Reviewer 2: > Do note that the use of :code:`dpctl.device_context` is deprecated and slotted for removal in some future release.

Better to format as note.

> **Users are not allowed to pass mixed type of arrays to a @numba_dppy.kernel.** For example, if the first array argument to a @numba_dppy.kernel is of type :code:`numpy.ndarray`, the rest of the array argument will also have to of type :code:`numpy.ndarray`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Users are not allowed to pass mixed type of arrays to a @numba_dppy.kernel.** For example, if the first array argument to a @numba_dppy.kernel is of type :code:`numpy.ndarray`, the rest of the array argument will also have to be of type :code:`numpy.ndarray`.
```

The following are how users can specify in which device they want to offload their computation.

- :code:`numpy.ndarray`

>     Using context manager, :code:`with numba_dppy.offload_to_sycl_device(SYCL_device)`. Please look at method :code:`select_device_ndarray()` in the example below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Using context manager, :code:`with dpctl.device_context(SYCL_device)`. Please look at method :code:`select_device_ndarray()` in the example below.
```

- Array with :code:`__sycl_usm_array_interface__` attribute
     Numba-dppy supports the Compute Follows Data semantics in this case. Compute Follows Data stipulates that computation must be off-loaded to device where data is resident.

>      Expected behavior in different cases:

Reviewer: Please add small examples for each scenarios.

Author: I have added the example at the end of this file. It should show behavior for the two types of arrays.

Reviewer: And there is no easy way to check where the execution occurred?

Author: Not that I am aware of. We had a discussion in one of the comments above.

            - Users are allowed to mix arrays created using equivalent SYCL queues. Where equivalent queues are defined as:

                Two SYCL queues are equivalent if they have the same:
                    1. SYCL context
                    2. SYCL device
                    3. Same queue properties

            - All usm-types are accessible from device. Users can mix arrays with different usm-type as long as they were allocated using the equvalent SYCL queue.

>             - Using the provided context_manager to specify a queue when passing SUAI args will not have any effect and will produce an warning stating the same.

Reviewer: Using the context_manager to specify a queue when passing SUAI args will have no effect on queue selection and mumba-dppy will print out a warning to inform the user.

Reviewer: An example showing what the warning is with output will be helpful.
